1. Have the final template in markdown
	1. Ask ChatGPT to copy this template for both the presentation and the synthetic versions. 
	2. Same for the average case study
2. Fine-tune the prompt for the assistant


* [x] Assistant prompt to create a comprehensive case study in Google Docs ✅ 2024-11-23
* [x] Assistant prompt to create a synthetic case study in google doc ✅ 2024-11-23
* [x] Assistant prompt for comprehensive case study in Markdown ✅ 2024-11-23
* [x] Assistant prompt for a synthetic case study in Markdown ✅ 2024-11-23
	* [x] Need to provide to the AI ✅ 2024-11-23
		* [x] The MD Format I have ✅ 2024-11-23
		* [x] The format for the Notion Case Study ✅ 2024-11-23
		* [x] Ask AI to come up with a template ✅ 2024-11-23
* [x] Assistant prompt for a PDF case study in Markdown ✅ 2024-11-23
* [x] Assistant prompt for comprehensive case study in Notion ✅ 2024-11-23
* [x] Assistant prompt for synthetic case study in Notion ✅ 2024-11-23
* [ ] Create the automation


**Planning en 2 heures**

Have all case studies on both notion, markdown and Google Docs
Allow for 30 minutes to verify them
That means I need to finish creating the assistants in a few minutes











1. Find where all the materials for my case studies are. 
	1. For each piece of content, paste everything into one single document. 
2. Make use of the assistant in Make
3. Automate the creation of
	1. Markdown in Google Docs
		1. Synthetic Version
		2. Comprehensive Version
		3. PDF Version
	2. Google Docs Case Studies: Find good templates. 
	3. Slides Case Studies: Find good templates. 
4. Finish my portfolio
	1. Comprehensive case studies all in Markdown Format. 
	2. All synthetic Studies in Markdown format as well.
	3. All PDF Versions in Markdown
	4. Links to go from the synthetic to the detailed version. 
	5. Can also try more polished versions in Notion and in Google Docs (This will only require me to ask ChatGPT to come up with templates to go from one format to another)
		1. For the synthetic
		2. For the comprehensive
		3. For the PDF

