# 2. Project Initiation - Optional Activity: Create OKRs for your project

## Using the template

[[Template - OKR]]
[External Template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Bsgh7-khXn_tT-Jbg_QMkLzQCYorTOzRGQ5xY5PxkUM/edit?resourcekey=0-W_IWAeUCd9XeQ85Gm7mC-A)

#### Objective Instructions

-   **Aspirational:** Is the objective challenging and inspiring?
-   **Aligned with company goals:** Does the objective support company and/or departmental OKRs?
-   **Action-oriented:** Does the objective motivate the team to take initiative?
-   **Concrete:** Can the project team easily grasp the objective?
-   **Significant:** Will achieving the objective make a meaningful impact or change from where you are currently?

#### Key results instructions

Each key result should address the following questions:

-   Does the key result help define success for your team
-   Can it be measured to prove that you’ve achieved your objective?
-   Is it specific and time-bound?
-   Is it ambitious yet realistic?

# 2. Project initiation - Exemplar Assessment

Exemplar can give 3 results for each objective but we could develop many more. 
- The key results should help expand upon project goals and clarify deliverables you need from the project to accomplish goals
- Each key result should use measurable data to define success

# 2. Project Initiation - Test Knowledge Identify Project Goals

### Questions to ask to make a goal specific
- Who is involved
- Where should it be delivered
- What do I want to accomplish

### Examples of a measurable goal
* Increase product revenue by 5% *

### Strategy to determine if a goal is attainable
- Break down a goal into sub-goals

### Determine if a goal is relevant
- Consider if the goal matches the organization's other needs and priorities
### Objectives and key results best practices
- Key results should be tactical and specific
- Objectives should be motivational and inspiring
- OKRs are a resource that should be linked to the project plan


# 2. Determining project scope

[[2. Determining a project's scope - raw]]

## Definition
- Project scope includes the boundaries of the project. 
- It  is an agreed upon understanding of what is included and what is excluded from a project. 
- Scope: Defines that a project is clearly defined and mapped out. That means knowing who the project will be delivered to and who will be using the end results of the project. 

## Why defining the scope is important
- We need a firm understanding of the project complexity. 
- The scope also includes the project timeline, the budget and the resources. 
- Poorly designed scope can cause changes to the timeline or even the final outcome of the project. 

## How to define the scope of a project
- Defining the scope of the project: Talk to sponsors or stakeholders
- Find out what the goals are. 

## What questions to ask stakeholders
- Questions to add to the list
	- Where did the project come from 
	- Why is it needed
	- What is the project expected to achieve
	- What does the project sponsor have in mind
	- Who approves our results

## Timing

* Defining the project scope should happen at the early stage. 
* Having it early on helps everyone to agree on the same set of expectations

## Document

* Document all the details so that everyone can refer back to it at all times in the project. 
* Best practices at the end of the module 

##  Responsibilities

* It is the responsibility of the project manager to take care of the project scope. 
* It is also expected from all team members to contribute from their POV. 
* 
# Gathering information to define the scope

## Important notions
* In Scope
* Out of scope
* Scope creep*

## What do you need to determine
* Resources
* Resource cost
* Schedule for the project*

## Questions you can ask to define your scope
### Stakeholders

-   How did you arrive at the decision to _____?
-   Who did the request originated from?
-   Who will approve the scope for the project?

### Goals

-   What is the reason for ___?
-   What isn't working ___?
-   What is the end goal of this project?

### Deliverables

-   Which ____ is being updated?
-   What exactly needs to be updated?
-   Does the ____ needs a remodel? 
    

### Resources

-   What materials, equipment, and people will be needed?
-   Will we need to hire contractors?
-   Will we need to attain _____?
    

### Budget

-   What is the budget for this project? Is it fixed or flexible?
    

### Schedule

-   How much time do we have to complete the project?
-   When does the project need to be completed?
    

### Flexibility

-   How much flexibility is there?
-   What is the highest priority: hitting the deadline, sticking to the budget, or making sure the result meets all the quality targets?
    

## **Key takeaway**

Make sure you understand the 
* Who 
* What 
* When
* Where
* Why
* How 

# Monitoring and maintaining a project scope

## Project tasks
* It is important to know which task is included in the project plan and which are not
* In-scope: Tasks that are included in the project plan and contribute to the project's goal
* Out-of-scope: Tasks that are not included in the project plan and do not contribute to the project goal
* It is the job of the project manager to set and maintain firm boundaries for the project so that the team can stay on track. 
* If someone asks something random at any time, we can say that this is out of scope and this will add time and extra costs. 
* Scope creep: Changes, growth and uncontrolled factors that affect a project's scope at any point after the project begins are referred to as scope creep. 
* Adding things in the middle
	* Impacts timeline causing the project to take longer to finish
	* Impacts resources: We would need to hire more people or existing team members would have to work over time
	* Increase budget as the team did not expect costs for extra working hours 
* By identifying scope creep and being proactive we protect the project and the project team

## Combat scope creep

### External sources
- Customer requests
- Environment shifts
- Changes in technology

#### Useful tips to keep in mind
- Stakeholders should have visibility into the project
	- Details of what is going to be produced
	- What resources are required
	- How much it will cost
	- How much time it will take
- Get clarity on the requirements
- Ask for constructive criticism on the initial project proposal
- Get this information before any contract is signed
- Set ground rules and expectations for stakeholder involvement
- Come to an agreement on all roles and responsibilities during execution and status reviews
- Create a plan on how to deal with out of scope requests
- Put these agreements in writing. 
- Leading causes
	- Not being clear on the requirements
	- Not getting formal approval before moving forward. 

### Internal sources
* Comes from members of the project team
* Insists on process, product changes or improvements
* Any change outside of the project scope
	* Threathens the schedule
	* Increases risk
	* There are no small impact on project scope
	* More is lost than just the time spent to work on that task
* The best defense: Know the project's details in and out
* Monitor the project scope and protect it

## Strategies for controlling scope creep

### Definition
- Scope creep: When a project work grow beyond what was originally agreed upon during the initiation phase. 

### Best practices to manage scope creep
* Define the project requirements: And document it during the initiation phase
* Set a clear project schedule. The schedule outlines all of the project requirements and the tasks to achieve them. 
* Determine what is out of scope
* Provide alternatives:
	* Suggest alternative solutions to stakeholder or customer.
	* Help them consider how changes will create additional risks
	* Perform a cost analysis if necessary
* Set up a change control process
	* Changes will be inevitable
	* Determine a process for how change will be defined, reviewed and approved before adding it to the project plan
* Learn how to say no. If you are asked to take on additional tasks: explain how they will interfere with budget, timeline, resources
* Collect costs for out of scope work

## Managing changes to a project scope
* The goal for the project manager is to deliver the project according to scope agreements. *
* It includes delivering the project in the given deadlines and within the approved budget. 
* We need to continually adjust and make tradeoffs. 

### Changes to a project scope
* Every time a change is brought to the scope, more is lost on the project than just time. 
* To ensure that a change in scope is acceptable, we should use the Triple Constraint model. 
* Triple constraint is the combination of the main restrictions in a given project
	* Scope
	* Time: Project schedule and deadlines
	* Cost: Budget and resources, people who work on the project
* We cannot change one without having an impact on the other 2. 
* We need to know what is more important when it comes to scope, time and cost. 
* If it is a specific deadline that should be met, then we need to limit changes to the scope that would cause to pass the deadline. 
* If the product must look or function in a certain way, then product requirements are a priority and we should justify changes in scope or time to meet the project scope requirements. 

### Key takeaway 
* Keeping in mind at all times the constraint model
	* Scope
	* Time
	* Cost*

# 2.2.25 Launching and Landing a Project
[[2.2.25 Launching and Landing a Project]]

- Project launch: Delivering the product or project to the client
- Landing: When measuring the final results and judging if the success crtieria are met. 

# 2.2.26 Don't forget to land - measuring project success
[[2.2.26 - Synthesis - Don't forget to land - Measuring Project Success]]

- Landing a project occurs once the project achieves a measure of success. 
- Landing is the ultimate reward of all our efforts. 
- We need. To set some success criteria. 


**2.2.27**
**2.2.28**