---
category: "[[Clippings]]"
author: "[[Coursera]]"
title: "Determining a project's scope | Coursera"
source: https://www.coursera.org/learn/project-initiation-google/lecture/KaAfb/determining-a-projects-scope
clipped: 2024-04-03
published: 
topics: 
tags: [clippings]
---

Let me know if you have any questions about this material. I'm here to help!

Welcome back. Project scope is a really important concept
That I want to tell you about. You'll hear it come up
Time and time again throughout each phase of
The project life cycle. In fact, you may even find
Yourself defending it, so let's get
Acquainted with scope. In this video, you will learn how to define and
Determine scope. Simply put, your project scope includes the boundaries
Of a project. The way we define it at Google is "an agreed upon
Understanding as to what is included or excluded
From a project." Scope helps ensure that your project is clearly
Defined and mapped out. That means knowing exactly
Who the project will be delivered to and who will be using the end result
Of the project. You also need a firm
Understanding of the project's complexity. Is it straightforward with an easily
Manageable list of tasks? Or will it require
Extensive research, multiple rounds of approvals, and a large-scale
Production process that will take years to complete? Scope also includes
The project timeline, budget, and resources. You need to clearly define these so that you
Can make sure you're working within those
Boundaries and what's actually possible
For the project to work. Poorly-defined scope
Or major changes to your scope can cause
Changes to the budget, timeline, or even final
Outcome of the project. Let's look at the scope of your Office Green
Project as an example. As a reminder, the new
Plant Pals service offers customers small,
Low-maintenance, plants like cacti and leafy ferns that they can
Place on their desks. Customers can order
Them online or from a print catalog, and
Office Green will ship the plants straight to
The customer's work address. Things to consider
For your scope, then, might be whether or not to
Provide replacement plants; which customer segments will
Be offered the service; whether or not the online
Catalog is an app, a website, or both; and how to ensure customers can purchase from the online catalog, whether by phone, PC, Mac, iPhone, or Android. You might also consider the dimensions of the
Paper catalog and whether it needs
To be in color or black and white
And on what kind of paper. Now, how do you actually figure out the scope
Of your project? It's simple: talk to your
Sponsors and stakeholders, understand what their goals
Are, and find out what is, and this is really important, what is not included
In the project. We've covered a number of different ways to help
You determine scope. Here are a few more helpful
Questions to add to the list. Where did the project come from? Why is it needed? What is the project expected to achieve? What does the project
Sponsor have in mind? Who approves the final results? Now you'll really be set. As for timing, defining project scope should
Happen during the initial planning stage. You want to start figuring
Out the scope early on so that everyone can agree to
The same set of expectations. It will help mitigate the risks of big changes down the line. Although you can always
Adjust the scope as planning continues,
If you need to. Once you understand
Your project scope, you want to document all the
Details so that anyone can refer back to it throughout the life
Cycle of the project. We'll talk about
Some best practices for that at the end
Of this module. Let's recap: a
Clearly defined scope describes all the details of a project and
Regulates what can be added or removed
As it progresses. While it's ultimately the project manager's
Responsibility to monitor the project and make sure all the work and resources
Fall within its scope, team members and stakeholders can be encouraged
To do their part by focusing on the
Task that are the most important to reaching
The project's goal. The next video talks
About the concepts of "in-scope" and "out-of-scope" and the phenomenon called "scope creep." All three will help with
Ensuring your project stays on track and within
Budget. Stay tuned.