# Intro
- It goes hand in hand with goal planning. 
- Replanning the goal can change the scope
- Bringing changes to the scope can change the goal. 
- The goal for you as the project manager is to deliver the project according to the scope agreements: 
- Includes delivering the project in the given deadlines and within the approved budget. 
- We continually adjust and make trade offs

# Changes to a project scope
- Anytime a change is brought to the scope, more is lost on the project than just time. 
- To ensure if a change in scope is acceptable, project managers use the Triple constraint model
- Combination of the main restrictions in a given project
	- Scope
	- Time: Project schedule and deadlines. 
	- Cost: Budget and resources, people who work on the project. 
- You cannot change one without having an impact on the others.
- Important to know what trade offs we are willing to make as the project progresses. 
- You need to know what are the project priorities
- You need to know what is most important when it comes to scope , time and cost. 
- If there is a specific deadline that should be met, then we need to limit changes to the scope that would cause us to pass the deadline. 
- If the product must look or function in a certain way, then the product requirements are a priority and you can justify the changes in scope or time to meet the project scope requirement. 
- Just because you can make a change does not mean you should. 
- Even if the limits of scope, time and cost have been set, you can make a change if there is a good reason to do so. 

# Key takeaway for scope change
Keep in mind at all time the constraint model
- Scope
- Time
- Cost

