
# Scope creep definition
* Scope creep is when a project's work starts to grow beyond what was originally agreed upon during the initiation phase. 

# Best Practices for scope management

1. Define the project's requirements: Define exactly what stakeholders want from the project and document it during the initiation phase. 
2. Set a clear project schedule: Outline all of the project's requirements and tasks necessary to achieve them. 
3. Determine what is out of scope. Come to an agreement regarding the impact to the project and document the agreement. 
4. Provide alternatives: 
	1. Help them consider how proposed changes might create additional risks.
	2. Perform a cost-benefit analysis
5. Set up a change control process
	1. Determine the process for how change will be defined, reviewed and approved.
	2. Make sure the project team is aware of this process
6. Learn how to say no to proposed changes. 
	1. Saying no can be uncomfortable
	2. Saying no will be necessary to protect the project scope and qaulity. 
	3. If asked to take on additional tasks, explain how they will interfere with budget, timeline, and resources
7. Collect costs for out-of-scope work
	1. Document all costs incurred to out of scope work
	2. Includes costs for work impacted by the increased scope


- **Collect** **costs for out-of-scope work.** If out-of-scope work is required, be sure to document all costs incurred. That includes costs for work indirectly impacted by the increased scope. Be sure to indicate what the charges are for.
