
# Summary 

## Definitions 
- OKR stands for objectives and key results
- They combine a goal and a metric to determine a measurable outcome
- Objective
	- Defines what needs to be achieved
	- Describes a desirable outcome
- Key results
	- The measurable outcomes that objectively define the objective has been met

## Setting Objectives 


### What the project objectives should be

- Aspirational
- Aligned with organizational goals
- Action-oriented
- Concrete
- Significant
Consider the vision you have for the project and determine what you want the project team to accomplish in 3-6 months. 

### Questions to ask ourselves

- Does the objective help in achieving the project’s goals?
- Does the objective align with company and departmental OKRs?
- Is the objective inspiring and motivational?
- Will achieving the objective make a significant impact? 

# Setting key results

## What the key results should be
- Time bound
- Can be used to indicate the amount of progress to achieve within a shorter period or to define if we met the objective at the end of the project. 
- They should challenge me and the team to stretch to achieve more

## Strong key results
* Results-oriented—**not** a task
- Measurable and verifiable
- Specific and time-bound
- Aggressive yet realistic

## Questions to ask to craft the key results

- What does success mean? 
- What metrics would prove that we achieved the objective?

# Best practices to develop OKR

* Objectives: motivational and inspiring
* Key results: Tactical and specific
* Objectives: What do you want to do
* Key results: How you will know you did it
* Develop around 2-3 key results for each objective
* Document OKRs and link them in the project plan

# Exemplar Asssessment

- Exemplar can give 3 results for each objective but we could develop many more. 
- The key results should help expand upon project goals and clarify deliverables you need from the project to accomplish goals
- Each key result should use measurable data to define success


# To learn more 

[[Obsidian/01 💼 Projects/Project Management with Google/Resources]]  
[[0. Project Management Cheat Sheet|0. Project Management Cheat Sheet]]
[[2. Project Initiation - Application of the OKR to my project]]