
# Intro
* At the beginning of a project - define goals and deliverables in order to determine if they were met. 
* Success criteria: Helps you determine if the project as a whole was successful. It tells us the specific details of project goals, deliverables, requirements and expectations. 
* They are the standards by which you will be judged when delivering to final customers or stakeholders. 
* It helps clarifying what we are trying to accomplish. 

# Defining success criteria
- We should be answering the question: How will I know when it is successfully accomnplished. 
- Go through the goals and deliverables, review the scope and identify the measurable aspects of the project. 
- These are going to be any of the metrics defined in goals and deliverables, along with budget and schedule details. 
- Get clarity from stakeholders on requirements and expectations. 
- Who is going to determine if the project is going to be a success?
- What is the success based on? 
- We need a process for measuring the process throughout the entire project life cycle. 
- The metrics used should be as closely aligned to the goals as possible. 
- **Adoption: how a customer adopts and uses a service or a product without any issue.**
	- Launching a product to a group of new users and having a high amount of them using the product or adoping it. 
	- Tracking how many customers initially sign up and use the service would be an adoption metric. 
- **Engagement: How often or meaningful customer interaction and participation is over time. **
	- Increasing the daily usage of a design feature. 
	- Increasing orders and customer interactions. 
	- Tracking how many customers renew their service, post about it, or share feedback are engagement metrics. 

# Think about how to track the metrics. 
Think about the tools to collect the data to verify we are on track. 
If measuring success metrics like revenue, track it on a spreadsheet to be able to track spots and trends. 
If measuring customer satisfaction, think about how to incentivize customers to participate in customer surveys. 
Utilize project management tools to check on efficiency metrics like what percentage of tasks is actually completed, if the project is progressing alongside the planned timelines. 
It is smart to measure the success within the team. 


# Ways to measure success within the team
1. Hold a project review once a month. 
2. Have teams complete tasks checklists by certain deadlines
3. Hold feedback sessions with users or customers. 

Pick methods that align the success criteria. 

Also include the methods for how the success will be measured, how often it will be measured and who is responsible for measuring it. 

Share the success criteria with the stakeholders and ask them if they agree on how the success criteria are determined . 

Have appropriate stakeholders sign off the success criteria. We are aligned on who is responsible for which success criteria. 

If done correctly, defining success criteria will give better alignment in the team and better visibility around achieving success. 

Clarity around success metrics: Prioritize which efforts are most impactful on the users. 

