
# Info 
- Raw material here: [[Lesson 2.2 - How to supercharge your design workflow with AI]]
- Summary here: [[Cheat Sheet#^27a23a|Lesson 2.1]]
- More info here: [[Obsidian/01 💼 Projects/AI For Designers/Resources#^d39d36|Supercharge your Design workflow with AI]]


# How can AI Help Us

- Can decrease cognitive load and decision making by processing large amounts of data
- Automate repetitive tasks such as formatting images or resizing text. 
- Helps us to provide more insights into user behavior
- Creating mockups or visual assets
- Spot usabiltiy Issues and so on
- Ai can help us at various steps of the process for instance by covering our blind spots, augmenting our thinking , being more efficient


# End to end design process augmented by AI
`
* There should be always a person orchestrating this
* Applying critical thinking and showing intentionality
* AI show multiple limitations at each one of those steps

# Two Types of AI tools for UX Research on the market

### Insights Generators
- Summarize user research session based only on transcript
- Humans are better at scoping and systems thinking to understand the interpretation landscape
- They do not take additional information into account like context, past research or background details about the product or users. 
- They cannot interprete the complete picture of user interactions and experiences. 

### AI collaborators

- Researcher will show human generated interpretation to train it. 
- The tool will recommend tags for the thematic analysis of the data. 
- It can also analyze researcher's notes, and create themes and insights based on inputs from multiple sources
- Analyze user research notes to create more nuanced themes and insights
- They have dififculty in handiling visual data, issues with citation and validation and introduction of bias into research results

# Limitations

- Visual Input processing
- No human or AI tool can analyze the output of a usability testing session by the transcript alone 
- Usability testing relies on observing how the user is interacting with the product. 
- Participants think aloud
- You should never analyze a usability test based only on what participant say. 
- Participants do not always verbalize what is happening, they do not describe everything and they do not have always a clear understanding  or mental model of the product. 
- Nielsen Norman group recommends to not trust these tools blindly at least for now. 
- Ai tools right now do not include the research insights, study goals, previous researchers, product information, user groups information, participant information, list of tasks or interview questions
- Lack of citation and limitation which poses concerns and problems. 
- The tools are not able to dissociate between the researcher's notes and the actual session transcript. 
- Lack citation: It makes verifying accuracy very difficult. 
- problem of bias
	- AI systems and applications have bias at 3 levels:
		- Systematic: historical and institutional, coming from training data
		- Statistical and computational: For instance a data set sampling that is not representative enough, coming from collecting data, or algorithms (computational bias)
		- Human. bias: Anchoring bias
- AI tools do not have the mechanisms in place yet to prevent these biases. 
- These issues can also happen for other companions in other steps of the design process: biases in image generation, offering context, output vagueness, generating results... 
- Take everything that is produced with a grain of salt and apply critical thinking at all times

# Overcoming limitations
* Use diverse and representative data
* Test and audit AI systems
* Provide clear guidelines for ethical use to aim for fair and unbiased AI decisions*

# Questions and answers

## Major shortcoming in the application of AI to user research transcripts

* The transcripts lack context and omit non-verbalized behavior. 

## What are the 3 levels of bias in AI

* Systemic, human, Statistical / Computational
