
# Info 
- Raw material here: [[Lesson 2.4 AI Tools for Research  Interviews with AI-Generated Personas]]
- Resources:  [[Obsidian/01 💼 Projects/AI For Designers/Resources#^1a3679|AI Tools for Personas]]


# Video transcript synthesis

- Simulate a conversation with a persona. 
- This is very controversial
- You will get stereotypical data
- You can use it as a starting point to map out the main themes
- Talk to real users to challenge and validate your initial research. 
- You can spot ideas worth investigating further based on a conversation with AI
- Imagine a fictional conversation with a persona
- We are going to ask chat gpt to imagine an interview script and then generate the interview
- Prompt to generate an interview script: "Can you give me an interview script for an interview unpacking productivity problems with Taylor?"
- You can never replace real users in the process. The interview with GPT will give you stereotypical data.
- Turn this interview script into an actual conversation with Taylor. 
- Interviews are mostly based on statistical information so they cannot possibly capture the nuances and details such as with real people
- That is why it is really important to include real people in the process. 
- We can also complement real data from interviews with AI generated data

## AI tools for Personas

1. **[The AI Toolbox for Innovators](https://ai.boardofinnovation.com/)**: There’s a free tool that can generate personas.
2. **[DALL-E 2](https://openai.com/dall-e-2)**: Can generate images for your personas.
3. **[ChatGPT](https://chat.openai.com/)**: As Ioana did, you can generate personas with ChatGPT.
4. **[Poll the People](https://pollthepeople.app/)**: Allows you to conduct consumer research with over 500,000 human panelists. It then uses ChatGPT-powered AI to analyze survey responses, quickly extracting key insights
5. **[User Persona](https://userpersona.dev/)**: Lets you enter a description of your product or service and generates a user persona for you.
