**3.6 - AI Tools for User Testing: Evaluate your Designs**

  

Resources - AI For Designers

  

  

**Summary**

- AI will never replace real users
- Can help to optimize and refine designs 
- Can help save one or 2 rounds of iterations
- Everything we can do with AI to evaluate a design right now should be taken with a grain of salt. 
- Interesting plugins to play around with 
- Some of them use heatmaps to tell us where are our users looking the most
- We can use high fidelity mockups 
- Using AI it can tell us what are the areas on the mockup that is most likely to draw users attention 
- Offers a clarity score showing how clear the design would be for a user, taking into account how clear the design is for a given user, the amount of text, text size, text contrast, color saturation… 
- We should always judge research with our human mind - critical thinking, systems thinking and understanding the context we are designing in. 
- We should not rely only on AI when we judge how a product is performing. 

  

  

**Tools**

  

**AI-Based UI Evaluation and Prediction Tools**

1. [**Attention Insight**](https://attentioninsight.com/)**:** This tool predicts where users will look after engaging with your design. Apart from predictive heatmaps, it can help you compare designs—you can use alternate versions of the same design or even a competitor’s design to evaluate how well your interface performs.
2. [**Predict by Neurons**](https://www.neuronsinc.com/predict)**:** Also generates predictive heatmaps of where your audience might look at your designs and has very similar features to Attention Insight, including integration with popular design software. The main difference between the two tools lies in the AI’s underlying “training”. While Attention Insight bases its predictions on eye-tracking studies, Predict uses data from eye-tracking and neuroscientific experiments.
3. [**3M’s Visual Attention System (VAS)**](https://vas.3m.com/)**:** This tool is similar to the above two predictive heatmap tools and extends to physical environments in addition to digital interfaces.
4. [**Heurix**](https://www.heurix.io/)**:** A heuristic analysis tool that conducts a UX audit of a website and automatically generates a report highlighting the areas of improvement.
5. [**UserTesting AI**](https://www.usertesting.com/platform/AI)**:** Helps synthesize large volumes of video, text and behavioral data to identify key themes, patterns and insights. The tool’s sentiment analysis feature focuses on what users _say_ during a testing session. Its friction detection focuses on behavioral cues (what users actually _do_) to pinpoint the exact places where participants had difficulty interacting with websites or prototypes during tests.
6. [**Miro**](https://miro.com/ai/): This online whiteboard tool has AI-integrated features that can help you find patterns and trends by grouping sticky notes by sentiment or keywords.

- **References and Where to Learn More**
- Discover how you can evaluate tools in this article, [**The No. 1 Question to Ask When Evaluating AI Tools**](https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/the-no-1-question-to-ask-when-evaluating-ai-tools/).
- Learn about [**A Simple Tool to Start Making Decisions with the Help of AI**](https://hbr.org/2018/04/a-simple-tool-to-start-making-decisions-with-the-help-of-ai).

  

  

**Take away** 

- Our products: Will be used by real human beings
- People are not homogeneous
- People have different life experiences. 
- There is no substitute for usability testing 
- Technology can help

- Evaluating if our designs conform to industry standards and heuristics
- Offer prediction of heat maps

- When having a sound design to start testing with: Need of fewer iterations and a more efficient design process

  

  

**Raw information**

  

  

  

May 6, 2024

**Lesson 3.6 - AI for Designers | IxDF**

https://www.interaction-design.org • [See original](https://www.interaction-design.org/courses/ai-for-designers/lessons/3.6)

  

UX

  

AI

  

UX Research

**3.6: AI Tools for User Testing: Evaluate Your Designs**

Estimated time to complete: 17 mins

  

_You might be in awe of AI tools, and have even grown to love them as they optimize your design process and remove all the mundane tasks. However, there is one area that AI will probably never fully take over our roles as designers._ 

_In this video, AI Product Designer, Ioana Teleanu, explains why AI won’t fully replace usability testing, but will still reduce the number of your design iterations._

  

Show Hide video transcript

1. 00:00:00 --> 00:00:33  
    Once we have high-fidelity designs with  nice UX copy in them, it's *testing time*! AI will never – at least, I hope – replace real users. But it can help you evaluate and optimize your designs before you take them to your users, and perhaps save you one or two rounds of iterations. When it comes to evaluating a design, the space is quite limited right now
2. 00:00:33 --> 00:01:05  
    and it has multiple research limitations; so, everything that you can do right now with the help of AI to evaluate how your design will perform should be taken with a grain of salt. However, there are some interesting plugins that you can play around with, and we're going to look at one that will essentially generate a heat map, telling you where your users will probably look at. So, using one of the high-fidelity AI-generated mockups, we're going to try to find out what are the areas on the screen that are most likely to draw the user's attention?
3. 00:01:05 --> 00:01:32  
    And here's the result of the heat map. This tool has another interesting feature. It offers a Clarity score, which shows you how clear or cluttered the design is for a new user, taking into account various aspects of your design, the amount of text, text size, and text contrast, color saturation, number of images, and so on. Our design got 58 out of 100, which means it's moderate difficulty,
4. 00:01:32 --> 00:02:00  
    and that's a very interesting Insight that we can start judging with our critical thinking. This was pretty fun, and it shows some promising capabilities. However, we should always judge research, be it generative or evaluative research, with our human minds, using critical thinking, systems thinking, understanding the context we're designing in. AI can help us with some insights, but we shouldn't rely solely on AI
5. 00:02:00 --> 00:02:03  
    when we judge how well our product is performing.

**AI-Based UI Evaluation and Prediction Tools**

1. [**Attention Insight**](https://attentioninsight.com/)**:** This tool predicts where users will look after engaging with your design. Apart from predictive heatmaps, it can help you compare designs—you can use alternate versions of the same design or even a competitor’s design to evaluate how well your interface performs.
2. [**Predict by Neurons**](https://www.neuronsinc.com/predict)**:** Also generates predictive heatmaps of where your audience might look at your designs and has very similar features to Attention Insight, including integration with popular design software. The main difference between the two tools lies in the AI’s underlying “training”. While Attention Insight bases its predictions on eye-tracking studies, Predict uses data from eye-tracking and neuroscientific experiments.
3. [**3M’s Visual Attention System (VAS)**](https://vas.3m.com/)**:** This tool is similar to the above two predictive heatmap tools and extends to physical environments in addition to digital interfaces.
4. [**Heurix**](https://www.heurix.io/)**:** A heuristic analysis tool that conducts a UX audit of a website and automatically generates a report highlighting the areas of improvement.
5. [**UserTesting AI**](https://www.usertesting.com/platform/AI)**:** Helps synthesize large volumes of video, text and behavioral data to identify key themes, patterns and insights. The tool’s sentiment analysis feature focuses on what users _say_ during a testing session. Its friction detection focuses on behavioral cues (what users actually _do_) to pinpoint the exact places where participants had difficulty interacting with websites or prototypes during tests.  
    

7. UserTesting AI’s Sentiment Analysis feature analyzes transcripts of user testing sessions and flags positive, negative and neutral phrases.  
      
    
8. [**Miro**](https://miro.com/ai/): This online whiteboard tool has AI-integrated features that can help you find patterns and trends by grouping sticky notes by sentiment or keywords.

**The Take Away**

All said and done, our products will not be used by robots. Our users are people. And people are not homogenous. Your users will likely have different life experiences, motivations, pain points and expectations from technology. They may be at different levels of tech-savviness, and well, may just change their minds for no discernable reason. And so, there is no substitute for usability testing with your users. Nevertheless, technology can help:

- Evaluate your designs to ensure they conform to industry standards and heuristics.
- Offer predictions of heatmaps (i.e., where users are most likely to look).

Note that these tools might flag potential issues based on past data, but you must interpret these findings to judge if they are worth pursuing, and how to resolve the issues.

When you have a sound design to start your testing with, you will likely need fewer iterations and ultimately have a shorter, more efficient design process.

**References and Where to Learn More**

Discover how you can evaluate tools in this article, [**The No. 1 Question to Ask When Evaluating AI Tools**](https://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/the-no-1-question-to-ask-when-evaluating-ai-tools/).

Learn about [**A Simple Tool to Start Making Decisions with the Help of AI**](https://hbr.org/2018/04/a-simple-tool-to-start-making-decisions-with-the-help-of-ai).

**Answer Questions to Get Your Certificate**

Why is it important to answer these questions?

- You’ll significantly improve your **ability to remember** what you’ve just learnt
- You get closer to **your Course Certificate**
- Get a **distinction on your certificate** when you score 90% and higher
- Research shows that when you answer questions, you’ll greatly improve your ability to transfer knowledge into new contexts, such as your **current or future workplace**.

Report issues with this page ->