**3.8 AI for Designers: Use AI to Test your Idea**

  

  

[](https://omnivore.app/home)  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

May 6, 2024 • 2 min read

**Lesson 3.8 - AI for Designers | IxDF**

https://www.interaction-design.org • [See original](https://www.interaction-design.org/courses/ai-for-designers/lessons/3.8)

  

**3.8: Build Your Portfolio: Use AI to Test Your Idea**

Estimated time to complete: 8 mins

  

**Welcome back to your next portfolio exercise! It’s time to evaluate your (and the AI’s) idea.**

1. Return to the interfaces you generated through your previous portfolio exercise. If you have another project for which you have interfaces at hand, feel free to use those for this exercise.
2. Run the interfaces through an evaluation tool. For example, you might use a heuristics auditing tool or a heatmap prediction tool.
3. Evaluate the findings and refine the interfaces based on your interpretations. Remember to use your judgment and not rely solely on AI-generated data.
4. Follow this up with usability tests with real users.
5. Compare the findings—was the AI prediction/evaluation accurate?
6. You can even A/B test this process: Conduct usability tests with both sets of interfaces— before and after the AI evaluation.

**Wrap Up**

**Write a summary of the efficacy of the AI-driven process and share it with the discussion group. How much effort did you need to put in to make the interfaces usable and presentable? Does the AI-evaluated interface perform better than the non-evaluated version?**

**Remember to document all your hard work—and to show off your work in your portfolio.**

  

Proper documentation will help strengthen your portfolio.

**You can use the discussion forum below if you have any questions or would like help with your work—your fellow course-takers are there to help!**

**Hero image: © Interaction Design Foundation, CC BY-SA 4.0**

**Tip: Use screenshots or photos to make your point**

**How do I take a screenshot — for easy uploading to a discussion?**

**Take a Screenshot — with a PC**

- Use the PRT SCR or PRT SC button to capture the screenshot.
- Open Paint (or in early versions of Windows MS Paint).
- Click CTRL + V to paste the screenshot into Paint.
- Save the screenshot in Paint.

**Note: You can use any art package on your PC instead of Paint if you wish. We have chosen Paint because it comes as a standard part of the operating system.**

**Take a Screenshot — with a Mac**

- Press Command + Shift + 3 to take a screenshot.
- The screenshot is saved on the desktop as a .PNG file.

**Use the Snipping Tool — on a PC**

- Search for ‘Snipping Tool’ inside your computer.
- Press ‘New’ (see screenshot below).
- Your screen will freeze and you’ll be able to select the area that you want to create an image from.
- Once you've selected the image, select File > Save As to save what you’ve captured as an image.

  

**How do I upload a screenshot to a discussion?**

**Answer Questions to Get Your Certificate**

**Why is it important to answer these questions?**

- You’ll significantly improve your **ability to remember** what you’ve just learnt
- You get closer to **your Course Certificate**
- Get a **distinction on your certificate** when you score 90% and higher
- Research shows that when you answer questions, you’ll greatly improve your ability to transfer knowledge into new contexts, such as your **current or future workplace**.

Report issues with this page ->

  

  

  

  

/dossantosjeremy/lesson-3-8-ai-for-designers-ix-df-18f4ea93b9f