* Become an early adopter of texhnologies to stay ahjead of the curve. 

# Video Summary

## Skills that cannot be replaced
* Critical thinking - discerning, deciding in a broader context, analyzing information to form a judgment*
* Systems thinking: Complex landscapes, product implications, cultural, social and historical context
* Our brains are effective to see how something is part of a larger system, taking various angles into account
* Empathy: AI cannot truly understand emotions, motivations and nuances. 
* Computers cannot fully mimic the human intuition. 
* Imagination: We can think of something new. AI Cannot do that yet. Everything AI imagines is stereotypical. 

* Collaboration: Cross-functional team work, disveristy… It is only with collaboration between humans that we can see understanding and progress
* Ethical judgement: Even with ethical considerations added to AI we cannot imagine the complexity that ethical thinking requires
* Embrace it but remain critical about it *

# Takeaway
* If you want to stay relevant in design, especially with new technologies like AI, it's crucial to adapt and keep learning. However, to stay ahead of the curve, you must embrace these changes, such as new technologies, early.*
* Think about how you can incorporate AI into your workflow and how it can complement you and your process


# Resources
Learn more about **[How AI Technology Will Transform Design](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2023/03/ai-technology-transform-design/)**in this _Smashing Magazine_ article.