
 * Consider solutions that are innovative but also mindful of their impact on society, environment and contribute to a better future. 

# Video Summary
* You cannot eliminate people from the process and then expect people to be happy with the results. 
* Humans are not replaceable in the process of understanding their issues. 
* Right now AI will give you basic and generic content. 
* Be aware of its limitations and do not rely to much on it. 
* Always fact check. Complement it with human thinking, 
* Any analysis, artifact, mockup, heatmap… is subject to AI limitation
* Use critical thinking when transposing these in your work. 
* You can‘t replace human collaboration. 
* Design still involves multidisciplinary efforts, multiple people coming together to solve complex problems by using diverse perspectives. 
* Design is conversation
* Design is collaboration
* Place ethics at the center of everything. 
* It starts with questions
	* Should we build this product
	* Will it promote good in the world
	* Can it harm people
* Consolidated Design Guidelines
	* Always put humans at the center. 
	* The design process should begin, continue and end with having humans or even better, humanity at the center of the process
* Help people grow
	* People are learning to use AI but at the same time AI is learning from us to serve us better. 
	* Make decisions to facilitate this loop, this exchange, as everything should be about collaboration and building bettersystems. 
	* You want to build for everyone. 
	* Being inclusive for people with all abilities. 
	* We should not emphasize inequalities that the society is currently giving. 
* Establish trust
	* Make the system honnest and transparent
	* People can misunderstand, misuse or incorrectly estimat ethe capabilities of the system
	* Show data sources, expose the thinking process, communicate openly and open the black box. 
	* We want design systems tha tbuild relationships with our users. 
	* Be fair, admit when you are wrong
	* And pay attention for legitimate fears and concerns. 
		* Privacy
		* Security
		* Consent
		* Is my data safe
		* How is my sensitive information used and stored
		* Is this content reliable 
		* Did I agree to all of this
		* Do I understand the implications of my interaction with the system

# Takeaway
* Place users at the center
* Ask yourself if the solution serves a genuine purpose
* Consider ethical implications
* Engage with communities, understand the root issues
* Designs should not solve immediate problems but contribute positively to society and the world*

# Resources

Google clearly spells out the boundaries of its AI practice. **[Google AI Principles](https://ai.google/responsibility/principles/)** state the objectives of its AI practice and specify what types of applications the company will not pursue.