## 1.1: Understanding UX and UX Teams

<small>Estimated time to complete: 37 mins</small>

Show video transcript

1.  00:00:00 --> 00:00:30
    
    Let's jump into lesson one, which is "Where to begin?". We know the problem, some of us, and we can identify that. But let's take a step back. There's a great quote from the former chairman of the Vanguard Group. And he said that the focus on outside-in is the cornerstone for business success.
    
2.  00:00:30 --> 00:01:07
    
    Now, my little story about the Vanguard Group is that in 1999 I worked with a company and Vanguard was our client. It was one of the first large-scale financial services – you know, a combined portfolio view using DHTML and a large-scale web application in the very early days of the Internet. And the thing is, what happened at Vanguard was classic to what you're going to learn about in this class.
    
3.  00:01:07 --> 00:01:30
    
    And what it was was the \*politics\* – the \*change\* that Vanguard went through. There was a situation where at one point we were working with a cross-functional team of 40 – you know, designers, developers, product managers, business analysts – and we were the small UX team.
    
4.  00:01:30 --> 00:02:00
    
    One of the very senior people at the time came in and he said, "We're going to redesign this navigation system. My \*wife's\* going to redesign this navigation system over the weekend." And he grabbed the blueprints and took them home. And the whole team sort of had to react to this because he was very, very senior in the chain of command. Now, the manager of this cross-functional team had spent a lot of time – months, maybe even years –
    
5.  00:02:00 --> 00:02:32
    
    establishing a rhythm and everyone on the same page and everyone working together; everyone trying to develop a high degree of usability. So, with Vanguard, I think as a consulting firm we lasted longer than anybody else. And they hired \*everybody\* in the business – spent a \*lot\* of money and spent about five years going through a really traumatic product development time period. From that period, though, they learned a lot. So, they went the expensive, long painful way.
    
6.  00:02:32 --> 00:03:02
    
    And in this class, I'm going to show you how to go the easy, simple way and to collapse your UX maturity to a shorter period of time and make fewer mistakes and spend less money. But it's great that Vanguard actually has a very strong UX team these days. They have for a very long time. But the early politics of how they got there are not that well known. And having been there, I can tell you it wasn't pretty!
    
7.  00:03:02 --> 00:03:32
    
    One of the largest UX firms in the country was there, and they were fired because they actually were very academic and they weren't really getting it. So, we were given the place of them. It was not fun as a consultant. And even as an employee in that organization, it also was not fun. But that was typical in the '90s. It was typical to run into that. So, one of the biggest problems with UX managing is not understanding what UX is and what UX teams are.
    
8.  00:03:32 --> 00:04:06
    
    And maybe you already understand this. Many of you listening to this will already understand this. So, you can see where, from my perspective, I am defining UX and UX teams as a seasoned practitioner in the industry. So, before we define it, let's just be clear that the whole point we're doing UX is for \*differentiation\* – right? So, this comes about by defining killer features based on \*understanding user behavior\*.
    
9.  00:04:06 --> 00:04:35
    
    It means innovating based on what you see in the \*real world\*, not what you cook up internally. And that as a business practice, business objectives and requirements are actually based on \*user research\*. Decisions are made with \*guidance from user testing\*. So, you'll hear a lot about the role of data and validation and how pivotal user research is in this course.
    
10.  00:04:35 --> 00:05:00
    
    Agile organizations will play alongside UX and get better results. And so, we'll talk a lot about agile and agile in user-centered design, going forward. Unique user experiences – and for me it's not enough that they're good. It's not good user experience; it's \*compelling\* – it's blows-you-away, like "Wow!" user experiences.
    
11.  00:05:00 --> 00:05:33
    
    And how we know this is we can measure adoption and conversion and reduce churn, for example. So, measurement becomes a really important part of this story that we're about to hear. If you look at differentiation in the industry – because this is an important thing – the intention is high: 47% (almost half) of CEOs say they want to use UX as a competitive differentiator. How many firms measure customer experience quality? Do \*you\* measure your customer experience or UX quality?
    
12.  00:05:33 --> 00:06:01
    
    About 53% of firms in the industry do that. How about tracking everything to improve experience quality? Tracking \*everything\*. That means call center; that means web; it means mobile; it means on-site conversions – any metric that you can grab – you know, usability test results. So, this drops to about a \*third\* of companies track everything.
    
13.  00:06:01 --> 00:06:31
    
    And then, finally, following a \*consistent UX design process\* – what percentage? Do you follow that? When I ask people in my trainings, they usually say, "Umm..." I usually see the hands dropping. And it's similar for the industry: 15% following a consistent process. So, process consistency is \*critical\*. It's about repeatability. It's about systematizing good user experience practices,
    
14.  00:06:31 --> 00:07:03
    
    not just at the UI level but in the way your team acts and is \*allowed to act\* in your organization. So, this is based on a survey that Forrester Research did. Now, the reality is that in the industry there's a lack of UX leadership and a lack of UX process typically. UX is not having a strong and sustainable position in the organization. There's a lack of support from the business. About 50% of organizations are supporting their UX teams currently.
    
15.  00:07:03 --> 00:07:32
    
    This is a study that Nielsen Norman Group did in 2017. So, it's not a pretty picture out there. And you've probably joined this class because you want to fix this picture. I hope that you want to repair it, and so this is exactly what you're going to learn in this class. What is user experience? So, user experience is what you \*get\*. A lot of people use the term "user experience" as if it's a \*thing\*, like a behavior
    
16.  00:07:32 --> 00:08:05
    
    or it's "do the UX" – we use it like that; we're "UX-ing", you know, we use it like a verb. But really, user experience is the \*touch-point\* that everything the customer or user has interacted with – if it's the PR, the packaging, advertising, web, mobile: any contact they've had with an interface. It's also the \*impressions\* that users or customers had with you. And this can also mean they bring \*expectations\* to your design or to your brand impression.
    
17.  00:08:05 --> 00:08:33
    
    It's their brand impressions or previous impressions with the UI. This is part of user experience; that stuff matters to the whole user experience. And that's why it's important to track everything just like USAA does. They have a program where they track over a hundred different UX factors. So, user experience is also a practice, and it's guided by disciplines in cognitive science.
    
18.  00:08:33 --> 00:09:03
    
    So, cognitive science is this multidisciplinary field – psychology, computer science, linguistics, neuroscience, anthropology and so forth. Cognitive science is about behavior. And UX is about validating, defining and designing human-centered systems based on the way people's \*thinking\* is – their perceptions, their actions and so forth.
    
19.  00:09:03 --> 00:09:34
    
    So, what is a UX designer? Well, it might be an analyst or artist, previously. It could be an HCI specialist. That's the field of human-computer interaction where cognitive science is. And they represent user experience based on deep advocacy and understanding of users. So, UX designers are really \*translators\*; they are translator roles. They use research to \*guide\* their designs.
    
20.  00:09:34 --> 00:10:02
    
    They're not just "lipstick makers", or they don't sit in front of Photoshop. UX designing is not a creative skill. It's not something that's absent of the user. You need to have the "U" in "UX". So, how is UX viewed in \*your\* organization? I'd like you to spend a few minutes reflecting on what your different teams think is the contribution to UX from each department's point of view. For some of you, this won't be hard.
    
21.  00:10:02 --> 00:10:35
    
    What's the ideal view you would \*like\* them to have? And then, finally, draft this as a \*mission statement\* for your team or for your role. So, here are some common UX roles that you should be familiar with: At the top, we have a CXO, or Chief Experience Officer. And then, the management below – these are typical job titles: a UX Director, a UX Manager, a UX Lead – as they get closer to the interface – a User Researcher, a UX designer; there could be a UX Architect (a little bit more on the data side)
    
22.  00:10:35 --> 00:11:07
    
    and then the Visual Designer – the person who actually makes it pretty, who actually takes it and makes it a Photoshop or Illustrator file. And that's kind of more of like an org chart and also like a process of management and leadership all the way down to, you know, the colors – so, colors, buttons, wireframe, user needs: managing that whole process, leading that process and directing that entire team and their processes and then directing an entire vision,
    
23.  00:11:07 --> 00:11:31
    
    an entire team product process and interaction with the rest of the organization and the business. And that's essentially what, in a \*happy\* world, you would see with UX roles. The reality is that most organizations have visual designers or just bring in "a designer" – a graphic designer – or it's a UX designer.
    
24.  00:11:31 --> 00:12:02
    
    Rarely do organizations bring in a user researcher. That's often later on. We think it should be earlier on because it's one of the key differentiators for UX maturity. And we'll learn why in just a bit. And then, of course, the obvious leadership roles are there, with leads managers and directors – you know – for keeping everything on track and developing competency. That's kind of rare, too. To have senior leadership roles in UX is rare
    
25.  00:12:02 --> 00:12:32
    
    largely because UX is \*misunderstood\*. So, here are some common UX roles. There's the UX designer. Now, this may be someone who has a background in graphic design, but they're not just a designer. It's not about pretty pictures for UX designers. This is one of the \*biggest\* mistakes that folks make in the industry, and it's time to correct it now. So, a UX architect is someone who may have a background in requirements or development.
    
26.  00:12:32 --> 00:13:02
    
    They may be more on the technical side, but they're \*not just\* a developer. So, if you're trying to make your UX architect or your UI developer the UX person, if you're trying to shove your UX work into that role or into someone in the dev team, you're really cutting off your nose to spite your face; you're really wasting an opportunity because anyone who is involved with dev is focused on making the best code and the best release that they can.
    
27.  00:13:02 --> 00:13:31
    
    And they really don't have time to advocate for users, which is the whole point of UX. So, it's a compromised role. There are a few hybrid so-called "unicorn" type of people, but they're \*rare\*. And they're not really available. Well, they're there, but if they \*are\* available, they get snapped up really quickly. So, I've only come across a rare breed of that type of mixed developer-UXer / mixed designer-UXer.
    
28.  00:13:31 --> 00:14:00
    
    And not all of them could be good; so, you could have someone who has that mix, but they're still biased by their background as a developer or still biased by their background as an artist. Someone who's made the transition and the shift is that unicorn – that golden sort of hybrid role. And then, a UX manager has a background in UX clearly, but they're not just a manager. They don't just go to meetings. They are helping out with a design.
    
29.  00:14:00 --> 00:14:21
    
    They are helping out with research. They're \*staying relevant\*. UX managers I know who move strictly into pure management roles lose their ability to keep the hand on the wheel and to be relevant, to learn, to experiment, and to pick up the empathy from users and customers directly.
    

## Answer Questions to Get Your Certificate

Why is it important to answer these questions?

-   You’ll significantly improve your **ability to remember** what you’ve just learnt
-   You get closer to **your Course Certificate**
-   Get a **distinction on your certificate** when you score 90% and higher
-   Research shows that when you answer questions, you’ll greatly improve your ability to transfer knowledge into new contexts, such as your **current or future workplace**.