1.  00:00:31
    
    Frank Spillers: I'm here with Alison Gavine, who is a managing partner and has many years of experience working with UX projects and the complexities of product delivery and managing UX teams and managing UX resources. And prior to that, she has a very interesting background working in large-scale communities.
    
2. 00:00:31 --> 00:01:05
    
    You know, one of the things about your background there that I also found fascinating was the advocacy that you found yourself doing as a key part of your role. And I wanted to ask you what is the job of a UX team or what's the function of a UX team? What are they supposed to be doing? I mean, advocacy comes to mind for me, but what do you think? Alison Gavine: The essence or the primary function of any UX team is *advocacy*.
    
3. 00:01:05 --> 00:01:31
    
    And advocacy is quite political in any sense. It's political because what you're doing is you're taking your users' voice and you're bringing your users' voice into your organization, into your design. And that is not an easy thing to do, but it's an essential thing to do. If you don't have that, then it's not real UX. F.S.: Right. Yeah; absolutely. Absolutely.
    
4. 00:01:31 --> 00:02:05
    
    So, it seems like a lot of organizations struggle with the barrier to just getting *access* to users. A.G.: Yes. Yes. F.S.: Why is it important for senior management to allow their UX teams or their product teams to actually talk to their users? Why is that important? A.G.: Well, that's important because if you don't have your users' voice in your design, if you haven't done your research, how do you know that your design is usable?
    
5. 00:02:05 --> 00:02:34
    
    And how do you know it's even what users want? F.S. Right. Good point. A.G.: How do you know? If you haven't done the research, how do you know? If you haven't actually asked people, if you haven't actually gone out there, into their homes or into wherever they're working, wherever they're *using* the technology, if you haven't gone out and been in their world for, you know, however long – one hour is probably a pretty standard time for a field study, for example –
    
6. 00:02:34 --> 00:03:01
    
    if you haven't tested the design with them to see where the pain points are and where they're struggling, how do you really know? F.S.: Right. So, it's the "How do you know?" test; that's a good— A.G.: Yes. F.S.: It seems that what is inherent in that is *spending time*. And you say going to their homes. You know, I think of how many times we've sat with users and had a cup of tea or whatever in their living room
    
7. 00:03:01 --> 00:03:30
    
    or, you know, it has been in an office and observing workflow, for example. But just it seems like the great UX folks – and we even see this from a recruiting standpoint when we're recruiting UX designers and UX researchers that the defining question is "How much time have you spent with your users?" because you and I know that that user advocacy comes from actually hanging out with your users.
    
8. 00:03:30 --> 00:04:05
    
    A.G.: Sure it does. And it's about observing the workflow. It's about observing the pain points. It's about finding out what makes it easier for them and how they would like it to be. F.S.: Right. A.G.: But it's also about being able to *highlight the insights* because the insights that come from that can often present more opportunities. They can often present more business opportunities. So, I think that part of it is really important as a way to convince senior management "Look, there may be
    
9. 00:04:05 --> 00:04:30
    
    missed opportunities here for some business development", really. So, that's like a great way to convince senior management (F.S. agrees.) because it is very difficult not only to get access to users, but to get the permission within your company's culture, because traditionally we didn't ask
    
10. 00:04:30 --> 00:05:04
    
    – we didn't always go out and ask users. And marketers are not UX people. Their job is very different to UX. And often, it's like "Oh, I'll just ask marketers what people want." F.S.: Mm-hmm; mm-hmm. A.G.: There's a difference. F.S.: Right – what people say and what they do are totally different. A.G.: Very much so. F.S.: A classic Margaret Mead quote, and then she added what people think they do and what they actually do is even different, too. A.G.: Very much so – and we see that all the time in usability tests, you know, and we make assumptions,
    
11. 00:05:04 --> 00:05:30
    
    and then we test those assumptions, and often we're wrong. F.S.: Yeah, I think this speaks to, in the design thinking methodology, the innovation starts with *empathy*. So, it's almost empathy as a *capital resource* for your organization. A.G.: Yes.
    
12. 00:05:30 --> 00:06:07
    
    F.S. That your UX designers are only *smart* if they've spent a lot of time with their users. I think Jared Spool, the usability web guru, said that the amount of time you spend with your users is proportional to the amount of quality that your software exudes. A.G.: Very true. Yes. F.S.: So, let's talk about some of the practicalities – what are first steps? How does an organization— what does that look like? Once the culture, as you said, of access to users and contact with users is in place
    
13. 00:06:07 --> 00:06:32
    
    – in other words, the "can do": "Yes, we can do this. It's scary to talk to our users, even if they're difficult to reach", you know, physicians or sales traders or deep-sea divers or whatever the case may be, where should organizations start? A.G.: Well, they should start with good project management, obviously, and good recruitment.
    
14. 00:06:32 --> 00:07:02
    
    F.S.: Right, okay. A.G.: And some of the things we've learnt over the years is that recruitment really needs to come from the users, not from, "Oh, we'll just ask a bunch of people down the corridor" because sometimes organizations can resort to that thinking – "Oh, well, you know, this is just getting a few people's opinions, so we will do that." So, doing that in-house, doing your recruitment in-house by just asking people in your organization isn't good UX.
    
15. 00:07:02 --> 00:07:32
    
    F.S.: Right. It's a hack. A.G.: It's a hack. F.S.: And maybe for mature teams – like Google has their cafeteria testing, but that's not the only user testing that Google does. They just do that in between. That's how you kind of keep your empathy, sort of like going in between the actual contact with real customers. A.G.: Sure. F.S.: Yeah, I mean, it makes a good point. So, good recruiting, good project management. What about organizations that want to do this themselves – is that a good idea?
    
16. 00:07:32 --> 00:08:00
    
    Versus outsourcing to a market research firm that can do that for you? Can you maybe talk about the pros and cons of just those practical points? A.G.: Sure. Well, definitely I would say for organizations to do it themselves – I think that's a great start. And I think that just by being able to reach your users – there are many tools and ways that you can do that; but just by being able to reach those people and bring them in.
    
17. 00:08:00 --> 00:08:34
    
    Make sure that you video those people so that everyone in your organization has an opportunity to see how well that went, or how well it didn't go. You want to be able to video your usability test or your field study. You want everyone in the organization to have access to that. In terms of bringing your stakeholders into that process, it's very important that your stakeholders or your senior management or both are able to attend at least one
    
18. 00:08:34 --> 00:09:01
    
    – at least *one* of your sessions. And if they aren't able to attend any of the sessions for whatever reason, you then may be able to ensure that they're part of the findings. So, it's preferable that they're involved in the process from being involved in the interviews. But if they're not able to do that, then certainly they must be involved in a *findings meeting*.
    
19. 00:09:01 --> 00:09:30
    
    F.S.: Right. A.G.: When you present the findings, you may choose to present the findings to different people in your organization. You may choose to maybe cut down a findings meeting. An average findings meeting should be around 90 minutes. I think that's a – you know – 60 to 120 minutes: something like that. But if you are presenting to senior management, you may just wish to produce a highlight reel.
    
20. 00:09:30 --> 00:10:05
    
    And then, that way, you can present the key findings to them, without taking up too much of their time. F.S.: Yeah, this reminds me of the idea of senior management attending and showing up. I think it's really important from a leadership position to show the involvement. It's sort of like the way that UX teams need contact with their users, senior managers need contact with UX teams. And since UX teams are spending time with their users, it makes sense that a senior manager would attend
    
21. 00:10:05 --> 00:10:32
    
    definitely the *findings meeting* because I was kind of laughing when you said that inside because I've had so many findings meetings where senior management was too busy to show up. A.G.: Oh yeah. F.S.: Or too busy to attend a usability test. I think we've had a few situations where the lab was empty. You know – it was just us in there, and there were no clients. It's like "Why did you spend the money to rent the lab?" My favorite story there is from Creative Good from 2000, in the Dot-com era.
    
22. 00:10:32 --> 00:11:04
    
    They used to stop the test and call the CEO or the senior manager and say: "Get down here right now! We're not running the test until you show up!" And they sort of made this kind of very radical statement that way. But I loved the idea of stop the presses until the senior management actually shows leadership commitment – A.G.: Sure. Sure. F.S. – to the UX efforts, you know, so yeah. Maybe you can talk a little bit about the different ways that you've
    
23. 00:11:04 --> 00:11:34
    
    found to recruit users or to contact your users, going, "If you don't have anything in place..." What's a baby step to do that? A.G.: A baby step to do that – something that I would do there would be you could put a survey on your site. And the survey isn't— you're not really going to use the data from the survey – you know, "What are you struggling with?"; "What do you like?" You could, but that's not the important part.
    
24. 00:11:34 --> 00:12:06
    
    The important part of putting a survey on a site is actually to get people's names and email addresses. F.S.: Build like a little panel, a customer panel. A.G.: You're building a little panel or a little database of names. And that way, that gives you some access to them. It tells you who they are. And also, not only that – I mean, you can do that from your customer database, anyway. F.S.: Mm-hmm. Email or... the sales team, as well. A.G.: But doing this – asking your customers through an opt-in survey if they would be interested in giving you
    
25. 00:12:06 --> 00:12:30
    
    more feedback means that you're getting the opt-in. F.S.: Sure. A.G.: And then, it would be just up to someone to make contact with them and set up some time. And that's when scheduling becomes important. It's important to schedule your testing or your field studies *in advance* so that you can make sure that your senior management and your stakeholders actually get on your recruitment calendar.
    
26. 00:12:30 --> 00:13:00
    
    F.S.: Right. A.G.: That's really important because doing that – like scheduling everyone and then presenting that to senior management, and saying, "Hey, we're doing some testing this week. Do you guys want to be involved?", that's— F.S.: Or "We need you to be involved." Not "Do you want to?" but "You *have* to be involved." A.G.: Exactly. Exactly. That's a different mandate. F.S.: Yeah. A.G.: But doing that, giving a good two- or three-week lead time on that is essential
    
27. 00:13:00 --> 00:13:30
    
    because it's too easy to say, "Oh, we don't have time. We're too busy. We're in this next release." and "We're involved in this." – whatever; "We've got conferences." – whatever. It's really important to get on their calendars, so even asking them ahead of time: "What works for you?" F.S.: Right – accommodate. A.G.: "Next month, what days do you have?" Get their commitment first *before* you go out and recruit. F.S.: It gives me an idea that you should almost co-opt that senior decision-maker.
    
28. 00:13:30 --> 00:14:05
    
    A.G.: Absolutely. F.S.: Almost give them that role as someone who is a champion to your research that you're doing. As opposed to just inviting them as a stranger, give them the role of a champion to your project. A.G.: Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. So, as we saw from that interview with Alison, the key takeaway for understanding what UX teams are supposed to be doing is simply *user advocacy*. You know, you need to be advocating for your users, for their needs
    
29. 00:14:05 --> 00:14:32
    
    so that we get the balance between business and user objectives because business and user objectives are typically out of balance in favor of the business. It's typically 90-10 or 80-20; in some cases, 95-5, you know, where there's zero visibility with a user.
    
30. 00:14:32 --> 00:15:06
    
    But let's be clear that UX is about *sparking innovation*, and how that's done is by putting users at the center. It's about *user-centered design* – the methodology. It's what we practice as UX people. It's also about *validation and metrics* – measuring that and understanding what the ramification is of a design decision is important. We use *design thinking*. Design thinking helps us shake the fruit from the tree in the sense that it gives us
    
31. 00:15:06 --> 00:15:31
    
    *empathy* and that ability to innovate through very creative kinds of ways and approaches. The key is to *develop outside-in design*. And outside-in design is a way of thinking based on data that you bring from the outside world, and you use that to inform what's inside. You don't just make decisions inside your company and expect the world outside to buy into them.
    
32. 00:15:31 --> 00:16:01
    
    That's called "crazy-making". So, a UX culture is really critical, and outside-in design can be a UX culture. I was really surprised back in, I think it was around 2004 when I saw that IBM changed the name of their group from The UCD – The User-Centered Design Group – to The Outside-In Design Group. And I thought, "Well, that's a silly marketing thing." It took me a year or two to realize that the language of that was really powerful because "Outside-In"
    
33. 00:16:01 --> 00:16:30
    
    is really easy to understand, compared to "User-Centered Design" ("UCD") or "Human-Centered Design" – you know, which doesn't make a lot of sense to people outside of the field. I mean, "outside-in" is like an *attitude*. It's like saying, "Let's do empathy", right? Now, for me, the important thing is that UX teams impact ROI and change. And they do this in three ways: 1) By bringing in *new ideas*;
    
34. 00:16:30 --> 00:17:01
    
    2) By bringing in *new insights*; and 3) By bringing in *new directions*. And under the New Ideas bucket is identifying *new markets*, *new products*, *new features*. Very typical – we do that. Every time we do a field study, we're identifying that stuff. *New insights* – so, doing customer research. *Lowering your risk with user testing* – we get insights into if we are designing the right thing by checking with users. We do that because we're a UX consulting firm, so that's normal for us.
    
35. 00:17:01 --> 00:17:36
    
    But we're basically the best practice model of how you want your organization internally to be working – you know, which is through validation and outside-in practices. *New directions* – so, *quick prototypes*, *cultural prototyping* will let you create new directions. And, of course, with UX/UI design you can mock stuff up with – the tools these days are incredible. You can do pixel-perfect type of designs if you want to, and, of course, *visual design* to give you that sense of realism and to create these clickable prototypes
    
36. 00:17:36 --> 00:18:03
    
    you can test that a lot of users think are real. So, you can validate new directions while you're building on these new ideas and these new insights. Now, here are some of the common UX techniques that you should be familiar with. It's really two buckets. It's really *Get design feedback* and *Innovate or Differentiate*. If you're trying to get feedback, it's through *usability testing* or through a *heuristic evaluation* like an expert review.
    
37. 00:18:03 --> 00:18:31
    
    If you're trying to differentiate or innovate, you really need *field studies*, and then get the *personas* from them. You really need to observe them and their culture and, of course, through rapid UI prototyping – that's kind of the "bread and butter". Now, I would say most organizations – you can decide where *you're* at – but most organizations have wireframing in their comfort zone and maybe user testing.
    
38. 00:18:31 --> 00:19:00
    
    Or maybe it's heuristic eval. and wireframing – in that lower quadrant there. But all four of these are normal techniques that a UX practitioner or UX team should be practicing all the time. So, usability testing is *not a focus group*. It's about *watching*, not actually asking users. Heuristic evaluations follow standards and patterns.
    
39. 00:19:00 --> 00:19:32
    
    So, you're following best practices that have been established and that you know about from your own work with users. In a field study, you're exploring problem-solving *without your product bias* – that's very important. And in prototyping, it's about creating ideas quickly without business or technical biases. You know, it's about blue sky, and it's not about following the technical constraints – because the thing about a wireframe is you can always throw it away really quickly and easily.
    
40. 00:19:32 --> 00:20:01
    
    There's no time wasted on coding. So, what is UCD? I've mentioned "user-centered design" or "human-centered design". UCD is the methodology – it's the umbrella of these techniques, of research techniques, design techniques – that's *interaction design techniques*; wireframing – and then also about *refining*: testing, listening, optimizing your conversion rate, for example. So, empathy is at the core in the research department.
    
41. 00:20:01 --> 00:20:36
    
    Prototyping is at the core in the design department, and optimizing and improving is in the refine bucket. The daily types of things that UX people do – so, conducting expert reviews, liaising with a business team or a dev team, preparing a report or getting ready for some user research – this is the kind of stuff that UX people do. Expert reviews give you a quick litmus test if you are violating any best practices or have any known usability issues.
    
42. 00:20:36 --> 00:21:01
    
    And they are there to help you, to give you direction or to quell internal debate. And they're quick and cheap and fast, except they don't have a user involved. So, we'll get to that on the more monthly activities, when we look at those. Liaising with business teams is really important to keep in sync, and that might be a stand-up meeting, as well,
    
43. 00:21:01 --> 00:21:32
    
    in agile organizations. And when someone is preparing a UX report or getting ready, they're doing that because they're trying to validate a design or they're trying to get requirements validated up front through a field study or usability testing in the case of design feedback. So, that's a day in the life. On a monthly basis, you're conducting customer visits, you're liaising again with a business team,
    
44. 00:21:32 --> 00:22:06
    
    and then you're creating wireframes – interaction designs. And customer visits are there to help you listen, do the empathy, validate. You might test prototypes, so it could be user testing. So, you've got a field study and a usability test. Those are two types of activities that UX teams should be doing at all times. And wireframing, of course, is something that *everybody* in the organization can do. For example, at Capital One, they introduced a culture of wireframing so that everybody was using Balsamiq,
    
45. 00:22:06 --> 00:22:33
    
    or, you know, the sketching program, to mock up and visually communicate with colleagues. Now, there are way too many people who are doing UX who are not being allowed or pushed to do user testing or user interviews. And it's really important to remember that good, UX comes from *user advocacy*, *customer contact*, *customer-derived insights*.
    
46. 00:22:33 --> 00:23:02
    
    That's the whole spirit of outside-in. And the bottom line is that UX teams are actually stronger with design thinking, with empathy, as their main process improvement approach. So, design thinking and user-centered design go *hand in hand*. They're pretty much the same thing. Design thinking just brings some very creative frame-breaking ways to tackle a problem, to approach it and to very rapidly prototype it.
    
47. 00:23:02 --> 00:23:19
    
    It's like user-centered design for the 21st century in the sense that it helps you communicate and understand what exactly you're trying to break through and have a design that resonates with customers.