# Prepare for Interviews

1. **Script interview questions.** Develop a list of questions that you’ll ask all of the users you interview. Try to be consistent across users. 
2. Collect supplies: Checklist of items you will need at the time of the interview. 
3. **Research the users.** This information might include their name, demographic information, relevant experience with the product you’re designing, or details about how they learned about the interview. You can use this information to extend the conversation during the interview and build a rapport. When you work for an organization, you can also screen participants on sites like LinkedIn to confirm they are who they say they are. You wouldn’t want to accidentally interview someone who is working for the competition!
4. **Practice.** It’s always a good idea to practice delivering the questions you’ll ask users before you conduct a real interview. This gives you time to make changes to the questions you’re planning to ask and helps ensure that the interviews run smoothly. Practicing is also a good way to determine if the length of the interview is appropriate, or if you need to add or cut questions from your list. You can practice asking interview questions in front of a mirror or with a trusted colleague.
5. **Build a rapport.** Building a good rapport is all about establishing a professional, but friendly, interaction. Making light conversation, like asking how the user's day has been, can help establish a relationship before the interview begins.
6. **Thank users for coming.** Before the interview begins, show gratitude to the people you’re interviewing for taking the time to meet with you and share their perspectives. Thanking users is a part of establishing a good rapport and can help them feel like their opinions are valued.
7. **Gather basic details.** As you meet users, remember to ask about basic information that's relevant to the interview, such as their name or demographic details.
8. **Follow interview etiquette.** Speak in a clear and concise manner while asking questions, and remain professional no matter how users answer a question. Show that you are actively listening while users share their perspectives, such as nodding, making appropriate eye contact, or writing notes.
9. **Ask open-ended questions.** Avoid asking questions that would lead to a simple “yes” or “no” answer. Instead, ask questions that start with “why.” 
10. Ask Follow-Up Questions
11. Keep Questions Short and Simple
12. Best practices to take notes during interviews
	1. **Highlight compelling quotes.** The most obvious part of an interview is to take notes on what the user says. Interesting quotes are strong indicators about how users really think and feel. Including quotes in your empathy maps is a great way to feature a firsthand perspective from a real user, which can provide valuable insight when you begin your designs.
	2. **Document observations about participants.** It's important to record not only what users say, but also their mood, expressions, body language, and behaviors. Pay special attention to outside factors, like a noise or distraction, that might skew interview responses. All of these observations will be important to consider when creating empathy maps.
	3. **Record interviews.** Ask participants if they will allow you to record their interview. If they consent, recorded interviews can be really helpful later, for revisiting parts of an interview that you might not remember or taking additional notes after the interview concludes.
13. After you've asked all of the interview questions, give users a chance to share their final thoughts about any items discussed during the interview. Some participants might open up about their opinions and reveal insights that they didn’t share earlier.
14. Also, remember to thank participants once more. You want participants to leave the interview feeling good about you, your future product, and the brand you might be representing.