* It is important to assess the organization UX Maturity so that we can move to the next level
* Stage 1: Interested. We do not have the money or the time. (startups)
* Stage 2: Important, programs are emerging. We hire UX Designers, working with consulting firm, doing usability testing.. .
* Stage 3 UX is critical, attending design meetings, UX managers are involved in teams and help in decision makings
* Stage 4: UX is the core of strategy (UX is not lipservice, not only doing service)
* Stage 5: UX is the fabric of the company. E.g. Apple. No hostility. Let's bring the UX team and have them engaged from the beginning. Doing field studies before there was any business decision. 
* Less mature organizations: Business => UI => Dev
* Early on => Early data from the field

* 37% of firms have not even reached the first stage of maturity. 
* 41% are in the first 2 stages.
* Source: Forrester research survey
Create a questionnaire to assess the maturity of a company, automation, delivered into your inbox. Most People are trying to build out UX Processes and teams. 

Even companies that are mature, can slip back on the first stages. 
Reaching maximum ROI, reaching this across all lines business. 

# What stage are you at and why?
* What stage are you at and why
* Where the organization is at now
* Stage of the company (honest assessment)
* Think cross-product lines as well
* User groups. Better to go to their office or to their home. 
* Do you talk to users. 
* Do you do usability studies. 
* Do you do field studies. 
* Field studies can influence business. 
* Ideally we want to do it upfront, earlier in the PLC.

# Questions
* Do you have UX team budget
* Do you have dev team budget
* Development, equipment
* Having a support system is important

NNGroup industry wide survey
38% of UX teams pay for user research
Industry stat: 60% of the time teams are not doing UX. 

Do you make design decisions with only stakeholders input. 
Are business team dictating design decisions only? They should not be. 
Are product managers talking to end users? 
Product managers need contact, user research
Do you conduct user interviews to assess user needs