
# Material
* Full course: [[Obsidian/Courses/UX Design Project by Google/Course 4/Raw/Best Practices for Crazy Eights|Best Practices for Crazy Eights]], [[Exemplar Ideate Using Crazy Eights]] *
* Resources: 

# Definition
* Popular design ideation exercise intended to help think of several ideas in record time. 

# Principle
* With Crazy Eights, you’ll sketch eight different designs, each with a new idea for solving the user’s problem.
## Group Setting

* Each person draws 8 sketches of their own*
* The group comes together and thinks about their favorite idea
* Each person shares the top 2 or 3 ideas with the whole group
* The best idea chosen has to be elaborated through more sketches

# Best Practices for crazy eights
* Identify the problem scenario: Identify gaps and opportunities, for instance from the competitive audit
- **Start with a large sheet of paper.** Fold the paper in half, then fold it in half again, then in half one more time. When you unfold the paper, you’ll have eight squares to sketch in.
- **Grab something to draw with.** A lot of designers prefer to draw using Sharpies, but a pencil or pen will work too. You can use whatever you already have to draw. 
- **Set your timer to eight minutes.** You’ll have one minute to sketch each design idea.
- **Let the ideas flow.** Draw any and every solution that comes to your mind. If you have more than eight ideas, feel free to repeat the exercise.
- Provide a photo of your crazy eight ideas
- Describe at least 3 of the ideas generated with the crazy eights activity

# Tips for crazy eights

1. Do a creative warm up exercise
	1. Example drawing the person next to you
	2. Example drawing your interpretation of a word or a phrase
	3. This helps to get into the mindset to sketch
2. Make sure the problem is well defined
	1. You should sketch for one problem statement at a time. 
3. Don't judge your ideas
4. Don't judge other people's ideas
5. Ideate in a comfortable environment: Relaxed setup which encourages creative thinking
6. Don't be afraid of sketching - you just need to communicate your ideas. 

# Explain your ideas
- Write a short explanation for at least three of your proposed solutions. 
- Write 2-3 sentences or bullet points for each idea that you describe

# CheckIn Questions
* Idenitfy a gap or opportunity to address based on the competitive audit comparison and report
* Sketch solutions to the gap or opportunity identified in the rectangles provided
* Spend one minute or less drawing in each rectangle on the paper
* Explain 3 of the solutions you proposed
* Take photos of your work*



# Benefits of crazy eights
- Exciting design exercise
- Generates a lot of ideas in a small amount of time
- Forces to think outside the box
- Should be fun and fast paced
- Let the creativity flow without judgement
