
Boiled or Steamed Vegetables
Makes: 4 servings | Time: 10 to 30 minutes
  
These are the two basic methods for cooking just about any vegetable, and they’re more similar than different. Boiling leaves you with somewhat wet vegetables (sometimes desired); steaming is faster, since you don’t have to wait for a pot of water to boil. The same vegetables will take about the same amount of actual cooking time to reach the same desired doneness. See the sidebar on shocking vegetables for the best way to stop the cooking process to finish later, or serve vegetables chilled in crudités or salads.
Salt
1 to 2 pounds vegetable of your choice, peeled, stemmed, seeded, and/or chopped as needed
Fresh lemon juice, olive oil, butter, or any of the toppings from “11 Ways to Jazz Up Simply Cooked Vegetables” (page 251)
Bring a large pot of water to a boil and salt it, or rig a steamer (see page 20). Add the vegetables to the water or the steaming basket and cook, checking frequently with the tip of a sharp knife, until they’re either crisp-tender or tender. Drain, then serve, drizzled with lemon juice, oil, butter, or whatever you like. Or shock in ice water (see page 238), drain again, and use in stir-fries or sautés or to eat cold. You can refrigerate them to use later for up to a day; just pat them dry first.
Greens Trim and rinse the greens. If the leaves and stems are pliable and can be eaten raw—like spinach, arugula, or watercress—that’s a tender green. If the stems are as crisp as celery (more than ⅛ inch thick or so) and the leaves a little tough—like bok choy, chard, kale, or collards—it’s best to separate the leaves from the stems (see the illustration on page 300) and give the stems a little head start. Add the stems or the stems and leaves to the pot and cook until bright green and tender, from 3 minutes for spinach to 10 for kale and collards. If you held back the leaves, add them when the stems are just about tender.
Tender vegetables like broccoli, cauliflower, green beans, asparagus, peas of any type, bok choy, corn, even eggplant (if you’re careful not to overcook it). Cook until the vegetable is just tender, which will vary from about 3 minutes for peas to 7 for broccoli florets to 10 or 12 for broccoli stems and thick green beans. Keep in mind that the smaller the pieces, the quicker they will cook.
Sturdy vegetables like roots and tubers: A little different method, but this will work for potatoes, beets, turnips, radishes, winter squash, and anything rock hard. Peel the vegetable or not, as you prefer; leave whole if possible (or cut in big chunks) to minimize waterlogging. To boil, start by putting the vegetables in a pot with enough water to cover by at least 2 inches (or drop into the basket of a steamer). Bing the water to a boil and cook until the vegetable is quite tender and can be pierced easily with a skewer or thin-bladed knife, from 10 minutes (radishes, for example) to nearly an hour (large whole potatoes). If steaming, be sure to add water if necessary during cooking.